# Sweden’s Eighth National Report under the Joint Convention on the safety of spent fuel management and on the safety of radioactive waste management

Sverige undertecknade konventionen om säkerhet vid hantering av använt kärnbränsle och om säkerhet vid hantering av radioaktivt avfall den 29 september 1997. Varje medlemsstat som har ratificerat konventionen ska ta fram en nationell rapport som täcker dess områden. Denna rapport är Sveriges åttonde nationella rapport under konventionen.

The requirements of the Joint Convention on the Safety of Spent Fuel Management and on the Safety of Radioactive Waste Management have for a long time been incorporated in the Swedish framework. The Swedish Government judged at the time of signing the Joint Convention in 1997 that the national policy and legislation, as well as the safety work conducted by the licensees and the authorities, complied with the obligations of the Convention.

The Swedish nuclear programme is in a phase of change. Massive expansion of nuclear power production is anticipated to meet the climate objective of net-zero emissions by 2045. At the same time, full-scale dismantling and decommissioning of several reactors is underway. The Swedish Government is currently taking a full range of measures to facilitate the commissioning and establishment of new reactors while ensuring the high level of safety, security, and safeguards. An intensive work has started. The Government has appointed a committee of inquiry that will propose changes to the legal framework, aiming at making the process of licensing new nuclear activities and facilities more efficient. In addition, the committee of inquiry will establish fair and effective licensing fees, and analyse the need for adaptation and development of the existing waste management programme to ensure safe final disposal of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste from new reactors.

A system for the final disposal of spent fuel from nuclear reactors is now underway. Since Sweden’s Seventh National Report under the Joint Convention, the Swedish Government has granted licensing decisions for a deep geological repository for spent nuclear fuel from the current fleet of reactors, for a fuel encapsulation plant, as well as for an extension of the existing repository for low- and intermediate level waste to include reactor decommissioning waste.
