# Convention on nuclear safety 2012 extra ordinary meeting

During the 5th Review Meeting of the Convention on Nuclear Safety (CNS), the Contracting Parties in attendance agreed to hold an Extraordinary Meeting in August 2012 with the aim to enhance safety through reviewing and sharing lessons learned and actions taken by Contracting Parties in response to events at TEPCO Fukushima Dai\-ichi.

It was agreed that a brief and concise National Report should be developed by each Contracting Party to support the Extraordinary Meeting. This report should be submitted three months prior to the meeting to the Secretariat via the Convention\-secured website for peer review by other Contracting Parties.

It was also agreed that the Contracting Parties should organize their reports by topics that cross the boundaries of multiple CNS Articles. Each National Report should provide specific information on these topics to address the lessons learned and activities undertaken by each Contracting Party. The National Report should include a description of the activities the Contracting Party has completed and any activities it intends to complete along
with scheduled completion dates.

The present report is therefore structured in accordance with the guidance given by the General Committee for CNS. In Chapter 0, a brief description of Swedish nuclear power
plants is given with an emphasis on measures that have been taken gradually as a result of new knowledge and experience. The following chapters deal with the six topics, which are: 1\) External events, 2\) Design issues, 3\) Severe accident management and recovery, 4\) National organizations, 5\) Emergency preparedness and response and post\-accident management, and 6\) International cooperation. Each chapter concludes with a table illustrating a high\-level summary of the items identified. To clarify the relationship between the text and table contained in each chapter, the parts of the text appearing in the table are underlined. Furthermore, the text of some sections/subsections in different chapters is repeated instead of using a reference in order to make the chapters self\-explanatory.

The Swedish report has been produced by a working group including representatives from both the Swedish regulatory body and reactor utilities. The regulator has coordinated this work.
