# Sweden's fourth national communication on climate change

Sweden's Fourth National Communication is formulated in accordance with the guidelines adopted by the parties to the Framework Convention on Climate Change. It presents basic facts about Swedish society and reviews the various sectors of society according to the classification commonly used in the context of climate. Emissions of different greenhouse gases are presented for each sector and as an aggregate figure for each year since 1990, along with the impact of various policies and measures on emissions.
The evaluations presented in the report show that Sweden has succeeded in severing the link between economic growth and greenhouse gas emissions. The policies and measures introduced have had a significant impact, and emissions have been decreasing with 2.3% since 1990. Over the same period, Sweden has enjoyed relatively high economic growth. The report also contains projections for emissions up to 2020. According to these projections, emissions will start to rise again unless more measures are taken.
The National Communication describes Sweden´s vulnerability and what it is being done to adapt to climate change. Sweden's international efforts in the form of development assistance with relevance to climate change and other types of cooperation are described, as are research and development activities. Finally Sweden´s education, training and public awareness efforts are described.
The material on which the national communication is based has been obtained through extensive activities undertaken by government agencies, led by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Energy Agency, with the participation of around ten other agencies. Most of the work on the fourth national communication was carried out during the period from the autumn of 2004 to the summer of 2005.
