# Sweden’s seventh national report under the Joint Convention on the safety of spent fuel management and on the safety of radioactive waste management

The requirements of the Joint Convention on the Safety of Spent Fuel Management and on the Safety of Radioactive Waste Management have for a long time been incorporated in the Swedish system for spent fuel and radioactive waste management. The Swedish Government judged at the time of signing the Joint Convention in 1997 that national policy and legislation as well as the safety work conducted by the licensees and the authorities in Sweden were in compliance with the obligations of the Convention.

The Swedish nuclear programme is in a phase of change with regard to new requirements on safety improvements for the continued operation of nuclear reactors and the shutdown and immediate decommissioning of other reactors. Of Sweden’s thirteen nuclear reactors, six reactors at the Forsmark, Ringhals and Oskarshamn sites have plans for long-term operation beyond 2020. The Ågesta reactor has been shut down since 1974, the two reactors in Barsebäck since 1999/2005, while in 2015 the utilities decided also to permanently shut down the four oldest electricity-producing reactors at Oskarshamn and Ringhals before the end of 2020.

Following the development of new regulatory conditions for decommissioning, the review and approval of licensees’ safety reporting and issued environmental permits, actual large-scale dismantling activities will commence at the Ågesta, Barsebäck and Oskarshamn sites in 2020.

Since Sweden’s sixth national report under the Joint Convention, progress has also been made in the licensing of final disposal facilities. The applications for an encapsulation plant and a deep geological repository for spent nuclear fuel from Swedish reactors, as well as for an extension of the existing repository for low- and intermediate level waste (SFR) to receive reactor decommissioning waste, have been reviewed and statements and recommendations have been forwarded to the Swedish Government for licensing decisions.
