# Implementation of Policy Coherence for Development – Focus: the Global Challenge of Economic Exclusion

In this communication, the Government reports to the Riksdag on the implementation of “Policy Coherence for Development” that has its basis in the bill “Shared Responsibility: Sweden's Policy for Global Development” (Government Bill 2002/03:122\). Sweden's Policy for Global Development entails a widened view of development, where all governmental policy areas shall contribute. Development assistance is just one component. Focus within the Swedish Policy Coherence for Development agenda was in 2008 (Government Communication 2007/08:89\) defined in the form of six global challenges (Oppression, Economic exclusion, Migration flows, Climate change and environmental impact, Conflicts and fragile situations, and Communicable diseases and other health threats). In this communication, the Government assesses its work with the six global challenges 2010\-2012, reported in an appendix. A general conclusion from the assessment is that government progress is good with regard to the formulation of Policy Coherence for Development, but that work remains with regard to coordination and cooperation within the policy.

This communication places particular focus on the global challenge of Economic exclusion. This challenge is defined as the lack of opportunity for poor countries and people to participate in, contribute to or benefit from the potential of the global economy. To counteract economic exclusion, inclusive growth is necessary. Inclusive growth refers to growth patterns where the whole society, including poor and vulnerable people, participates, contributes and benefits.
